added april updates (#342)
codatio/codat-docs: blog/230428-April-Features.md

---
title: "April Feature Updates"
date: "2023-04-28"
tags: ["Product", "Update"]
authors: jyorston
---

Last month, our product and engineering team have been working on expanding coverage across existing integrations and introducing some exciting new features.

Below you can see a demonstration from the engineers of the new functionality.

## Assess: Enhanced Invoices Report

<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "56.25%", height: 0 }}>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/47fad41c68ce49c8b0b1b1aa1909c154"
    frameborder="0"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%",
    }}
  ></iframe>
</div>

Traditionally lenders look up a bank statement to verify payments for an invoice are received and the date + amount are accurate.

> The Enhanced Invoices Report uses open banking and accounting data to automatically match paid invoices to a bank transaction record that was used to pay it, this helps to verify a customer’s payment against the companies historical invoice.

Reviewer: I thought it was simpler to write this in the singular.

> See [here](https://docs.codat.io/assess/enhanced-invoices/overview) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Enhanced Invoices](https://docs.codat.io/assess/enhanced-invoices/overview) for more information.
```

Reviewer: Try to avoid "here" as link text :-)

> 

Reviewer: Remove newline.

### List and create trackingCategories on QuickBooks Online Direct Costs.

<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "56.25%", height: 0 }}>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/32009bdb95124cd48df095ba8613599f"
    frameborder="0"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%",
    }}
  ></iframe>
</div>

> This update enables you to view and assign Locations, Customers, and Classes on expenses or cheques in QuickBooks online. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update enables you to view and assign Locations, Customers, and Classes on expenses or checks in QuickBooks Online. 
```

Using these fields on Codats directCost model enables you to provide companies with valuable insights into their spending patterns across multiple locations, departments, and even individual customer profitability.

> See here for [creating a directCost](https://docs.codat.io/accounting-api#/operations/create-direct-cost) and [retrieving a directCost](https://docs.codat.io/accounting-api#/operations/list-direct-costs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the documentation for [creating a direct cost](https://docs.codat.io/accounting-api#/operations/create-direct-cost) and [retrieving a direct cost](https://docs.codat.io/accounting-api#/operations/list-direct-costs)
```

### Create journals in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central

<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "56.25%", height: 0 }}>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/5436c8551e90401d99f03f058626ea07"
    frameborder="0"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%",
    }}
  ></iframe>
</div>

Codat now supports the creation of journal entries in Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central. 

This enhancement empowers you to provide this integration to your customers, streamlining use cases such as payroll reconciliation, purchase amortization, loan repayment reconciliation, and more.

> See [here](https://docs.codat.io/accounting-api#/operations/create-journal-entry) for more information on how to use the post journal entry endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [API Reference](https://docs.codat.io/accounting-api#/operations/create-journal-entry) for more information on how to use the POST journal entry endpoint.
```

### Increased Coverage of QuickBooks Online Deletion Support

<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "56.25%", height: 0 }}>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/b75c1ed71f63481bb11d0d7d54ed94a4"
    frameborder="0"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%",
    }}
  ></iframe>
</div>

> Codat has added support for the deletion of journal entries, bills, and invoices in QuickBooks Online. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Codat has added support for the deletion of journal entries, bills, and invoices from QuickBooks Online. 
```

This improvement enables you to offer this integration to your customers, simplifying use cases such as reversing erroneous transactions and maintaining accurate financial records.

> See [here](https://docs.codat.io/integrations/accounting/quickbooksonline/accounting-quickbooksonline-delete-journal-entries) for more information on how to use this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Delete data from QuickBooks Online](https://docs.codat.io/integrations/accounting/quickbooksonline/accounting-quickbooksonline-delete-journal-entries) for more information on how to use this feature.
```

  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/e517c51c9ccc497ca7380431aead7e7f"
    frameborder="0"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%",
    }}
  ></iframe>
</div>

Codat has added support for the tracking object on directCosts for QuickBooks desktop, this feature enables you to see the billable status on the cheque object in QuickBooks.

By marking expenses on a cheque as billable, businesses can easily identify and allocate costs to specific customers or projects.

This feature simplifies the process of invoicing clients for reimbursable expenses.

### Support for Negative direct costs on bank accounts for QuickBooks Online

<div style={{ position: "relative", paddingBottom: "56.25%", height: 0 }}>
  <iframe
    src="https://www.loom.com/embed/41607424e2884de1a0b44504f9468e18"
    frameborder="0"
    webkitallowfullscreen
    mozallowfullscreen
    allowfullscreen
    style={{
      position: "absolute",
      top: 0,
      left: 0,
      width: "100%",
      height: "100%",
    }}
  ></iframe>
</div>

> Codat has extended support for creating refunds for expenses in QuickBooks Online, in addition to existing support for refunds on credit cards, you can now also use negative direct costs for a prepay or bank accounts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've extended our support for creating refunds for expenses in QuickBooks Online. In addition to the existing support for refunds on credit cards, you can now use negative direct costs for prepay or bank accounts. 
```
